Life Cycle Assessment
& Environmental Product Declaration
Adbri Concrete
EPD—SN252F100
South Australia
Programme: The International EPD® System, www.environdec.com
Programme operator: EPD International AB
Regional programme: EPD Australasia Ltd
EPD registration number: EPD-IES-0021165
Publication Date: 13-03-2025| Version Date: 13-03-2025 | Valid until: 13-03-2030
Geographical scope: Australia
An EPD should provide current information and may be updated if conditions change. The stated
validity is therefore subject to the continued registration and publication at www.environdec.com.
In accordance with ISO 14025:2016, EN15804+A2:2019

-- 1 of 40 --

2
1. 	About Adbri ............................................................................. page 3
2. 	General Guidance ................................................................... page 8
3. 	General Information ................................................................ page 9
4. 	Life Cycle Assessment Information ................................... page 17
5. 	Content Declaration ............................................................. page 22
6. 	Environmental Performance Results .................................. page 29
7. 	Interpretation of Results ...................................................... page 37
8. 	References ............................................................................ page 39
Table of contents
Adbri is 	Building a
Better Australia 	with
its locally manufactured
cement, lime, concrete,
aggregates, industrial
minerals and concrete
products.
Adbri Concrete EPD

-- 2 of 40 --

3	Adbri Concrete EPD
1
At Adbri, we are Always Ready
to partner with customers that
are building Australia.
About Adbri
We believe in doing business responsibly;
keeping our people and communities safe;
meeting the needs of our customers; and
creating long-term value for our shareholders.
We contribute to a sustainable future.
Since our origins in 1882, we have focused
on building long-term partnerships that add
value. We are a proud Australian company
with an extensive local manufacturing presence
which allows us to be agile in meeting
customer needs.

-- 3 of 40 --

Adbri Concrete EPD	4
As one of Australia’s most experienced construction
materials companies, we have helped build the
foundations of our communities.
Today our 1500+ strong team located across 200
locations, continue to work closely with our customers,
partners and communities to develop solutions that
enhance the quality of lives of Australians.
Technical expertise you can rely on.
We are committed to supplying innovative
and quality products, supported by our leading technical
advice. Our in-house technical experts are highly
experienced in developing and managing quality
control and assurance systems for our industry.
Adbri operates a centralised laboratory complex in
Birkenhead (South Australia) that provides leading
capability in the Australian heavy construction
materials industry.
We were the first Australasian laboratory
to commission a robotic quality control
cement testing facility which improves
testing accuracy and efficiencies.
Our customers are also supported by a national team
of in-field technical specialists who work closely with
our laboratory-based experts. All our laboratories
have achieved ISO 9001 endorsement for Quality
Management Systems and our centralised Birkenhead
laboratory is also NATA accredited to ISO/IEC 17025
for a range of cementitious, lime, concrete and
aggregate test methods.
A proud Australian
manufacturer and supplier

-- 4 of 40 --

5

-- 5 of 40 --

Adbri Concrete EPD	6
Refuse Derived Fuel
At our Adelaide Brighton cement plant where we
manufacture clinker, Adbri pioneered in the use of
refuse derived fuel (RDF) in Australia in 2003. Since
then, we’ve used over 1.3 million tonnes of RDF
which has significantly reduced the Group’s GHG
emissions and reduced our GWP in states where the
use of ABC cement is used.
RDF is produced by a third party who processes
industrial waste products to produce an alternative
fuel source. As well as reducing demand for fossil
fuels, it diverts waste from landfill.
Our sustainability approach is built on strong
relationships with our people, customers, suppliers,
partners, shareholders and the communities in which
we operate, coupled with continuous improvement
across our value chains.
Cement, lime, concrete, aggregates, and masonry
are essential materials to the global economy. Our
products will play a critical role in the transition to a
lower carbon environment, supplying key industries
including construction, infrastructure, energy, mining,
and agriculture.
Our goal at Adbri is to be net zero
emissions by 2050.
We operate two emissions-intensive and hard-to-
abate processes – the integrated manufacture of
clinker and lime production. Our key decarbonisation
challenge is associated with unavoidable process
emissions that are chemically liberated from the high-
temperature processing of limestone, which accounts
for approximately 60% of Adbri’s Scope 1 and
Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions.
In 2022 we released our Net Zero Emissions Roadmap
which sets out the steps we will take to achieve our
goal of net zero emissions by 2050, based on the three
key actions of reducing emissions, creating new lower
carbon products, and collaborating with key partners.
.
Contributing to a safe, healthy and sustainable future
for Australians, our communities and the environment
is a fundamental part of Adbri’s culture.
Sustainability at Adbri

-- 6 of 40 --

7	Adbri Concrete EPD
Version No. 	Version Date 	Summary
1 13-03-2025 RAA Building Project with
Feltrin A & Son
Adbri is committed to a sustainable future and this
includes providing transparency about our products’
environmental credentials via an Environmental
Product Declaration (EPD).
Underpinning our EPDs is a Life Cycle Assessment
(LCA) which identifies the environmental footprint
throughout the life cycle of a product and is compliant
with the ISO standards 14040 and 14044.
Having an EPD allows Adbri to understand the
roles and contributions of different materials to
the total environmental impacts, thus, meeting market
demand for science-based, transparent, and verified
environmental product information.
This report presents the methodology, data, results,
and interpretation of the LCA. The LCA has been
through several iterations of internal review to refine
the life cycle data and assumptions.
Our Environmental
Product Declarations

-- 7 of 40 --

8
EPDs are not always
comparable
When comparing EPDs it is important
to recognise:
— EPDs within the same product
category from different programmes
may not be comparable.
— EPDs of construction products
may not be comparable if they
do not comply with ISO 14025:2006
or if they are produced using
different PCRs.
— Understanding the detail is important
in comparisons. Expert analysis
is required to ensure data is truly
comparable to avoid unintended
distortions.
EPDs require the completion of a Life Cycle Inventory
(LCI), LCA and verification to best practice international
and Australian standards.
— LCI is the collection of data on the inputs, processes
and outputs within a defined system boundary.
— LCA is the modelling of LCI in accordance with ISO
14040, 14044 and 14025 standards.
— EN 15804+A2:2019: Sustainability of construction
works – Environmental Product Declarations –
core rules for the product category of
construction products.
— General Programme Instructions (GPI) for the
International EPD System V5.0 – containing
instructions regarding methodology and the
content that must be included in EPDs registered
under the International EPD System.
— Third party verification of the output of the LCA
in the format of an EPD.
— Product Category Rules (PCR) 2019:14, v1.3.4
– construction products.
— Instructions of EPD Australasia v4.2 – a regional
annex to the general programme instructions
of the International EPD System.
EPDs are independently verified documents that include
information about the environmental impact of products
throughout their life cycle.
2 	General guidance
Benefits of using this EPD
Results derived from this EPD can be used as a component for customers,
for the purpose of compiling their own LCA calculation and modelling for
EPDs. The environmental impact indicators align with EN15804 +A2 and are
used to support lower carbon concrete initiatives, and to establish the global
warming potential of materials used for material selection or decision making.

-- 8 of 40 --

9	Adbri Concrete EPD
3
Programme Information
Programme Operator 	EPD International AB
Address 	EPD International AB
Box 210 60, SE-100 31
Stockholm, Sweden
E-mail 	info@environdec.com
Regional programme 	EPD Australasia
Address 	EPD Australasia Limited
315a Hardy Street
Nelson 7010
New Zealand
Phone 	AU: (+61) 02 8005 8206 	NZ: +64 9 889 2909
Website 	www.epd-australasia.com
E-mail 	info@epd-australasia.com
CEN standard 	EN 15804 +A2:2019 serves as the core PCR
Product category rules (PCR)
2019 Product Category Rules (PCR) 2019:14 Construction products, Version 1.3.4
Complementary Product Category Rules (C-PCR) 003 to PCR 2019:14
Concrete and concrete elements (EN 16757), Version 2019-12-20
Product Group Classification: UN CPC 375
PCR review was conducted by 	The Technical Committee of the International EPD ® System.
Chair: Claudia A. Peña. Contact via info@environdec.com
Independent third-party
verification Independent third-party verification of the declaration and data,
according to ISO 14025:2006:
EPD process certification 	EPD verification
Process certified by Epsten Group
101 Marietta St. NW, Suite 2600, Atlanta, Georgia 30303, USA
www.epstengroup.com
Accredited by: A2LA, Certificate #3142.03
Procedure for follow-up 	Procedure for follow-up of data during EPD validity involves
third party verifier:
Yes 	No
EPD Prepared by 	Jonas Bengtsson, Pasindu Samarakkody and Weiqi Xing
Edge Environment Pty Limited
Level 3 Greenhouse, 180 George Street, Sydney NSW 2000 Australia
W: www.edgeimpact.global
E: info@edgeimpact.global, info@edgeimpact.global
The EPD owner has the sole ownership, liability, and responsibility for the EPD.
EPDs within the same product category but from different programmes may not be comparable. EPDs of construction
products may not be comparable if they do not comply with EN 15804. For further information about comparability,
see EN 15804 and ISO 14025.
General information

-- 9 of 40 --

Adbri Concrete EPD	10

-- 10 of 40 --

11
Company Information
Owner of the EPD 	Adbri Limited
Level 4, 151 Pirie Street Adelaide SA 5000
+61 8 8223 8000
Description of the
organisation
Adbri is a leading Australian construction and building materials company that manufactures and
distributes cement, lime, concrete, aggregates, masonry products and industrial minerals. With
its origins dating back to 1882, Adbri is a vertically integrated business with operations spanning
Australia. The Group employs more than 1,500 people and serves customers in the residential and
non-residential construction, engineering construction, infrastructure, alumina production and mining
markets through its portfolio of respected brands.
Name and location
of production
Manufacturing and distribution of Adbri concrete is undertaken in the states of Queensland (QLD),
New South Wales (NSW), Victoria (VIC), South Australia (SA), and Northern Territory (NT). This EPD
report presents the methodology, data, results, and interpretation for concrete produced in South
Australia. Table 1 below shows all concrete manufacturing sites across South Australia.
Concrete sites in South Australia
1 	Burton
2 	Dry Creek
3 	Gawler
4 	Gillman
5 	Littlehampton
6 	Lonsdale
7 	Murray Bridge
8 	Sellicks
9 	Victor Harbor
10 	Welland
Table 1 | Concrete sites in South Australia
Adbri Concrete EPD

-- 11 of 40 --

Adbri Concrete EPD	12
Product Information
Adbri manufactures premixed concrete from over 90 strategically located concrete batching plants
throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria through our Hy-Tec and Central Premix Concrete
brands, and throughout South Australia and Northern Territory through our Adbri Concrete brand.
The process of manufacturing concrete involves the careful proportioning and mixing of cement, supplementary cementitious materials (SCMs),
aggregates, water, chemical admixtures and additives including colour oxides in some instances. As owners and operators of large parts of our
supply chain, raw materials are sourced from within the Adbri supply chain where possible.
These raw materials are mixed in batching plants according to specific concrete product mix designs which have been created to satisfy a range
of project requirements. In most instances, when the concrete mix required for a specific customer project is selected, materials are batched
using calibrated weight scales before being mixed and transferred to a concrete agitator which continually mixes the product during the delivery
process to a customer worksite. In some other instances, mobile wet batch plants can be set up at a project site where mixing occurs, removing
the need for concrete agitator trucks.
The products covered in this EPD reflect concrete supplied in accordance with AS1379 – Specification and supply of concrete, for normal
class and special class concrete. Normal class concrete specifies nominated characteristics where concrete is designed to meet slump and
compressive strength parameters at the point of delivery, and where additional characteristics such as air content may be specified. Special
class concretes have characteristics that include additional fresh and hardened properties specified outside of the normal class range.
Adbri’s lower carbon concrete
The Futurecrete ® range reduces the embodied carbon of concrete by a minimum of 30% when compared to the AusLCI baseline for straight
GP cement, no SCMs (v1.42).
In 2023, Futurecrete® concrete was redesigned, following the launch of Adbri EvoCem™ Type GL cement. EvoCem has been pioneered
by Adbri, as Australia’s first Type GL cement. EvoCem™ lower carbon cement has a minimum of 8% less carbon than conventional
Type GP and SL cement. EvoCem ™ cement is available in New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Northern Territory.
In addition to lower carbon cement, Futurecrete ® concrete replaces 25-40% cement content with SCMs, and Futurecrete Ultra replaces
upwards of 41% cement content for more significant carbon savings.
Futurecrete® lower carbon concrete is available through our Hy-Tec, Adbri Concrete and Central Premix brands so you can join us to
Build a Better Australia.

-- 12 of 40 --

13	Adbri Concrete EPD
Product Identification
Normal class concrete, Futurecrete ® and Futurecrete® Ultra lower carbon concrete, and special class concrete
are manufactured to comply with AS 1379.
The products considered are categorised as follows: lower carbon concretes which are promoted by Adbri
under the Futurecrete ® and Futurecrete® Ultra range names, normal class concrete products and special class
concrete products.
To help customers understand the differences, a basic description for each concrete type has been provided
below.
Futurecrete ® 	Futurecrete® lower carbon concrete relate to concrete mixes that lower carbon by a minimum of 30%
when compared to the AusLCI baseline for straight GP cement, no SCMs. Futurecrete® concrete replaces
25 – 40% of the cement content with SCMs.
The SCMs used include fly ash and slag and vary according to the state and plant of manufacture.
The increased use of SCMs assists in reducing embodied carbon in the concrete mix by reducing the
volume of cement.
In New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Northern Territory, Futurecrete ® concrete uses Adbri
EvoCem ™ low carbon cement which further reduces embodied carbon by a minimum of 8% when compared
to conventional Type GP cement.
Futurecrete ® Ultra 	Futurecrete® Ultra lower carbon concrete mixes are further optimised Futurecrete ® mixes, replacing over
41% of cement with SCMs.
The SCMs used include fly ash and slag and vary according to the state and plant of manufacture.
The increased use of SCMs assists in reducing embodied carbon in the concrete mix by reducing the
volume of cement.
Likewise to Futurecrete® mixes, Futurecrete® Ultra uses Adbri EvoCem™ low carbon cement in New South
Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Northern Territory.
Normal class concretes 	Designed to meet the requirements of AS 1379 Specification and supply of concrete, these concrete mixes
are suitable for general applications.
Special class concretes 	Adbri’s special class concrete mixes satisfy the requirements of AS 1379, and meet specific project
requirements which may include additional requirements for early strength, low shrinkage, high
flexural strength, etc. These products are designed to meet strict engineering requirements for civil works,
commercial and multi-residential buildings and infrastructure projects.
Use of SCMs in concrete
For decades, SCMs have been used in the production of concrete as a supplementary binder for use with cement. SCMs are used as a
supplement to traditional cement which can result in reduced carbon intensity of the concrete mix as a result of the reduced Portland cement
content. The use of SCMs may also improve the fresh properties of concrete and if incorporated optimally, increase the overall durability of
in-situ concrete, provided due care is taken during the early stages of placing and curing. SCMs are traditionally derived from by-products
of processing plants and conform to the requirements of AS3582.

-- 13 of 40 --

Adbri Concrete EPD	14
The presence of strong and sustainable local manufacturing of key materials, such as cement and concrete,
is closely linked to the economic prosperity of Australia and its regional communities.
DENOTES TRANSPORT OF A MATERIAL
Emissions
Emissions
Waste water
Waste water
Waste
Waste concrete
Vehicle Fuel
Electricity
Maintenance/
parts
Quarrying /
processing
Storage 	Mixing Ready Mix
Concrete
Rock
Sand
Aggregate
Fuel
SCM
Electricity
Cement
Water
Admixtures
Explosives
Fibres
Additives
Water
Figure 1 | Typical Concrete Process Flow

-- 14 of 40 --

15

-- 15 of 40 --

16
The environmental impacts of Adbri’s products listed in this EPD are grouped under the Futurecrete ® and Futurecrete® Ultra range names,
normal class concrete products and special class concrete products by cementitious type and compressive strength. The impact of variance
in nominal aggregate size and slump class have been modelled to ensure the grouping of similar mix designs that do not vary by more than
+/-10% in terms of Global Warming Potential (GWP).
Table 2 | Concrete assessed in this study
CONCRETE PRODUCTION
SITES
Available Constituents
GL 	GP 	Slag 	Fly ash
Burton 	X 	X
Dry Creek 	X 	X 	X
Gawler 	X 	X
Gillman 	X 	X 	X
Littlehampton 	X 	X 	X
Lonsdale 	X 	X 	X
Murray Bridge 	X 	X
Sellicks 	X
Victor Harbor 	X 	X
Welland 	X 	X 	X

-- 16 of 40 --

17	Adbri Concrete EPD
4
Declared unit and
Reference Service Life (RSL)
The declared unit adopted is one cubic metre
(1m3 ) of manufactured concrete.
Databases and LCA
software used
The software used was SimaPro ® LCA software
(v 9.4.0.1). The inventory data for the processes
are entered in the LCA software and linked to
the pre-existing background data for upstream
feedstocks and services. Inventory data was
selected per the standards, in the following order
of preference:
1. The Australian Life Cycle Inventory Shadow
Database (AusLCI shadow database) v1.27
is a National Life Cycle Inventory (LCI)
database developed by the Australian Life
Cycle Assessment Society (ALCAS) – this
data will comply with the AusLCI Data
Guidelines (Australian Life Cycle Inventory
Database Initiative (ALCAS, 2017). At the time
of this report, the AusLCI shadow database
was 5 years old. 1
2. The Australian Life Cycle Inventory (AusLCI)
v1.36 was compiled by the Australian Life
Cycle Assessment Society (ALCAS) – this data
will comply with the AusLCI Data Guidelines
(Australian Life Cycle Inventory Database Initiative
(ALCAS, 2021). At the time of this report, the
AusLCI database was 1 years old.2
3. Ecoinvent 3.8 database (Ecoinvent Centre,
2021) for all processes taking place overseas
i.e. outside Australia, using global average
processes. At the time of this report, the
Ecoinvent database was 1 year old. 3
Description of system boundaries
and excluded life cycle stages
The scope of LCA for this EPD is cradle-to-gate with
options for modules A4, A5, C1 – C4 and D. Emissions
from the use stages (B1 – B7) were excluded as the
assumption is different in each project archetype.
All modules included in this EPD are marked as X in the
table below and those excluded are marked as ‘module
not declared’ (MND). The system boundary for this EPD
is depicted in the figure below.
LCA information

-- 17 of 40 --

Adbri Concrete EPD	18 
Table 3 | Life Cycle of building products: stages and modules included in this EPD
Product Stage
 
Construction Stage
 
Usage Stage
 
End of Life Stage
Benefits &	
loads for the
	next product
system
Raw
Material
	Supply
Transport
 
Manufacturing
 
Transport
Construction/
	installation
	process
Use
 
Maintenance
	incl. transport
Repair incl.
	transport
Replacement
	incl. transport
Refurbishment
	incl. transport
Operational
	Energy Use
Operational
	Water Use
De-construction
& demolition
 
Transport
 
Re-use
	recycling
Final
Disposal
Reuse,
	Recovery
	Recycling
	potential
Module
 
A1
 
A2
 
A3
 
A4
 
A5
 
B1
 
B2
 
B3
 
B4
 
B5
 
B6
 
B7
 
C1
 
C2
 
C3
 
C4
 
D
Modules
	declared
 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
ND
 
ND
 
ND
 
ND
 
ND
 
ND
 
ND
 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X
Geography
AU
 
AU
 
AU
 
AU
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
AU
 
AU
 
AU
 
AU
 
AU
Share of	
specific	
data
<10%
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Variation -
	Products
 
<10%
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
Variation -
	Sites
 
<10%
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
-
ND = Not Declared

-- 18 of 40 --

19	Adbri Concrete EPD
The processes included in the LCA are presented
in a process diagram in the figure below:
Figure 2 | System diagram
Extraction and production of primary raw materials
and secondary materials:
Aggregates, sand, cement, SCMs, admixture and water
External and Adbri owned materials transport to plant
Concrete production
Potential for reuse, recovery and recycling:
Environmental benefits resulting from using
deconstruction activities
Distribution of concrete mixes
Construction process
End of life stage:
Materials, fuels, transport and utilities required for
deconstruction and demolition at the end of its service life
A1
A2
A3
A4
A5
C
D
Process diagram

-- 19 of 40 --

Adbri Concrete EPD	20
Upstream processes
The upstream processes include those involved
in Module A1 – Raw material supply.
This module includes:
— Extraction, transport and manufacturing
of raw materials.
— Generation of electricity from primary and
secondary energy resources, also including
their extraction, refining and transport for
Modules A1 and A3.
Electricity inputs in foreground processes based in
Australia were modelled based on the state-specific
grid. The AusLCI database was used to model
electricity in the foreground processes. The AusLCI
dataset was updated using state specific grid data
sourced from the Department of the Environment and
Energy, December 2020.
Core processes
The core processes include those involved in Module
A2 and Module A3, including:
— External transportation of materials to the
core processes and internal transport.
— Manufacturing of the concrete mixes.
— Treatment of external recycled materials
for reuse.
Data quality
Foreground data on raw material requirements, manufacture, construction,
use and end of life inputs is for FY2020-2021. The data sources and their
assessed quality are detailed in Table 4. Overall, the data quality for this LCA
was considered Good.
Table 4 | Data quality
Module 	Process 	Geographical coverage 	Time period coverage 	Technology
coverage
A1-A3 	Internal aggregate 	Very good 	Very good 	Very good
A1-A3 	Internal cement 	Very good 	Very good 	Very good
A1-A3 	External aggregate 	Good 	Very good 	Good
A1-A3 	External cement 	Good 	Very good 	Good
A1-A3 	Fly ash 	Good 	Very good 	Good
A1-A3 	Slag 	Good 	Very good 	Good
A1-A3 	Admixtures 	Good 	Very good 	Good
A1-A3 	Water 	Very good 	Very good 	Very good
A1-A3 	Electricity 	Very good 	Very good 	Very good
A1-A3 	Diesel 	Fair 	Good 	Good
A1-A3 	Unleaded petrol 	Fair 	Good 	Good
A1-A3 	Natural gas 	Fair 	Good 	Good
A1-A3 	Large truck 	Good 	Good 	Good
A1-A3 	Medium truck 	Good 	Good 	Good
A4 	Concrete truck 	Good 	Good 	Good
A5 	Water 	Good 	Very good 	Very good
A5 	Electricity 	Good 	Very good 	Very good
A5 	Diesel 	Good 	Good 	Good
C1 	Diesel 	Good 	Good 	Good
C2 	Truck 	Good 	Very good 	Good
C3 	Concrete recycling 	Good 	Very good 	Good
C4 	Inert waste landfill 	Good 	Very good 	Good
D 	Gravel 	Good 	Good 	Good
The EPD will be updated if changes in its lifecycle inventory lead to a variation of 10% or more in any of the included environmental indicators
during its validity period.

-- 20 of 40 --

21	Adbri Concrete EPD
Cut-off rules and exclusion
of small amounts
It is common practice in LCA/LCI protocols to propose
exclusion limits for inputs and outputs that fall below
a threshold % of the total, but with the exception that
where the input/output has a ‘significant’ impact it
should be included. According to the PCR 2019:14
v1.3.4, Life cycle inventory data shall according to EN
15804 A2 include a minimum of 95% of total inflows
(mass and energy) per module. Inflows not included in
the LCA shall be documented in the EPD. Data gaps
in included stages in the downstream modules shall
be reported in the EPD, including an evaluation of their
significance. In accordance with the PCR 2019:14
v1.3.4, the following system boundaries are applied to
manufacturing equipment and employees:
— Environmental impact from infrastructure,
construction, production equipment, and tools that
are not directly consumed in the production process
are not accounted for in the LCI. Capital equipment
and buildings typically account for less than a few
percent of nearly all LCIs and this is usually smaller
than the error in the inventory data itself. For this
project, it is assumed that capital equipment makes
a negligible contribution to the impacts as per
Frischknecht et al. (Frischknecht, 2007) with no
further investigation.
— Personnel-related impacts, such as transportation
to and from work, are also not accounted for in the
LCI. The impacts of employees are also excluded
from inventory impacts on the basis that if they were
not employed for this production or service function,
they would be employed for another. It is very hard
to decide what proportion of the impacts from their
whole lives should count towards their employment.
For this project, the impacts of employees are
excluded.
— Transport for raw materials accounting for less than
1% of the feed mix was excluded. This is because
the impact contribution is considerably small.
Based on this guidance, no energy or mass flows,
except packaging of materials were excluded. All
materials required for manufacturing are delivered via
trucks and ships without packaging.
Key assumptions
1. All foreground data used for the manufacturing processes (up to factory gate), transportation to the concrete
plant, distribution in Australia, via a ‘Request for Information’ spreadsheet. This data was collected for the
period September 2020 to September 2021 referred as financial year 2020 -2021 (FY20-21).
2. The assumptions for construction and construction waste were made based on the GCCA tool.
3. Recycling and reuse of concrete can provide economic benefits along with environmental benefits compared
to manufacture from raw materials. Concrete is durable and lasts long term. As a result, it can be reused or
recycled for aggregate production without exploiting from natural resources. The distance for waste collecting
from construction site to landfill/ recycling plant is assumed 50km.
4. The information in Module D may contain technical information as well as LCA results from post-consumer
recycling, i.e., environmental benefits or loads resulting from reusable products, recyclable materials and/or
useful energy carriers leaving a product system e.g., as secondary materials or fuels. Avoided impacts from
co-products from Module A to C shall not be included in Module D. The benefit in this case is the avoided
production of gravel from natural source. The recycling process is modelled as using the rock crusher to
produce recycled aggregate. The recycling rate for concrete is assumed 72%.

-- 21 of 40 --

22
Content declaration	5
EPD product description
Product stage (A1 – A3)
Specific data for module A2 was obtained for Adbri operated processes. All the materials used for concrete mixes
were transported in bulk via trucks.
Adbri operates and manages the transport of aggregate and sand from its quarries to its concrete batching plants.
Data for the quantity (i.e. load), number of trips and transport distance between every origin quarry and destination
concrete plant was provided by Adbri. This data was converted to a kg.km transport unit.
The transport of all other raw materials to the concrete batching plants was modelled using actual transport
distances, based on the transport modes for each raw material ingredient (provided by Adbri) and the supplier
origin information.
The electricity used for concrete production in South Australia is modelled based on the state-specific grid. The
AusLCI database was used to model electricity in the foreground processes. The AusLCI dataset was last
updated in 2021. To assess whether an average of the manufacturing sites can be applied without justification, it
is necessary to ensure that the variation in the GWP- GHG impact between sites is not higher than 10% in
modules A1-A3.
Concrete manufacturing is undertaken primarily at Adbri branded concrete batching plants. All plants have the
same site resource use profile, management systems and operating systems. In addition, concrete batching plant
resource use constitutes less than 1% of impact in each impact category.

-- 22 of 40 --

23
According to EN 15804 A2:2019, in a process step where more than one type of product is generated, it is
necessary to allocate the environmental stressors (inputs and outputs) from the process to the different products
(functional outputs) in order to get product-based inventory data instead of process-based data. An allocation
problem also occurs for multi-input processes.
In an allocation procedure, the sum of the allocated inputs and outputs to the products shall be equal to the
unallocated inputs and outputs of the unit process.
The following stepwise allocation principles shall be applied for multi-input/output allocations:
— The initial allocation step includes dividing up the system sub-processes and collecting the input and output data
related to these sub-processes.
— The first (preferably) allocation procedure step for each sub-process is to partition the inputs and outputs of the
system into their different products in a way that reflects the underlying physical relationships between them.
— The second (worst case) allocation procedure step is needed when physical relationship alone cannot be
established or used as the basis for allocation. In this case, the remaining environmental inputs and outputs from
a sub-process must be allocated between the products in a way that reflects other relationships between them,
such as the economic value of the products.
In the case of co-production, where the processes cannot be subdivided the coherence of the process must be
followed. The allocation procedure criteria are as follows in Table 5.
Revenue
Classification
Revenue
Contribution
Allocation
Type
Very Low Processes generating overall revenue
of the order of 1% or less The process may be neglected
High 	A difference in revenue of more than 25% 	Allocation shall be based on economic values
Low 	A difference in revenue of less than 25% Allocation shall be based on physical properties,
e.g. mass, volume.
Table 5 | Allocation procedure criteria
Adbri Concrete EPD

-- 23 of 40 --

Specific data for module A2 was obtained for Adbri operated processes. All the materials used for concrete mixes
were transported in bulk via trucks.
Adbri operates and manages the transport of aggregate and sand from its quarries to its concrete batching plants.
Data for the quantity (i.e. load), number of trips and transport distance between every origin quarry and destination
concrete plant was provided by Adbri. This data was converted to a kg.km transport unit.
The transport of all other raw materials to the concrete batching plants was modelled using actual transport
distances, based on the transport modes for each raw material ingredient (provided by Adbri) and the supplier
origin information.
The electricity used for concrete production in South Australia is modelled based on the state-specific grid.
The AusLCI database was used to model electricity in the foreground processes. The AusLCI dataset was last
updated in 2021. To assess whether an average of the manufacturing sites can be applied without justification,
it’s necessary to ensure that the variation in the GWP- GHG impact between sites isn’t higher than 10% in
modules A1-A3.
Concrete manufacturing is undertaken primarily at Adbri branded concrete batching plants. All plants have the
same site resource use profile, management systems and operating systems. In addition, concrete batching plant
resource use constitutes less than 1% of impact in each impact category.
Allocation
According to EN 15804 A2:2019, in a process step where more than one type of product is generated, it is
necessary to allocate the environmental stressors (inputs and outputs) from the process to the different products
(functional outputs) in order to get product-based inventory data instead of process-based data. An allocation
problem also occurs for multi-input processes.
In an allocation procedure, the sum of the allocated inputs and outputs to the products shall be equal to the
unallocated inputs and outputs of the unit process.
The following stepwise allocation principles shall be applied for multi-input/output allocations:
— The initial allocation step includes dividing up the system sub-processes and collecting the input and output
data related to these sub-processes.
— The first (preferably) allocation procedure step for each sub-process is to partition the inputs and outputs
of the system into their different products in a way that reflects the underlying physical relationships
between them.
— The second (worst case) allocation procedure step is needed when physical relationship alone cannot be
established or used as the basis for allocation. In this case, the remaining environmental inputs and outputs
from a sub-process must be allocated between the products in a way that reflects other relationships
between them, such as the economic value of the products.
Revenue
Classification
Revenue
Contribution
Allocation
Type
Very Low Processes generating overall revenue
of the order of 1% or less The process may be neglected
High 	A difference in revenue of more than 25% 	Allocation shall be based on economic values
Low 	A difference in revenue of less than 25% Allocation shall be based on physical properties,
e.g. mass, volume.
In the case of co-production, where the processes cannot be subdivided the coherence of the process must be
followed. The allocation procedure criteria are as follows in Table 6.
Table 5 | Allocation procedure criteria
Adbri Concrete EPD	24

-- 24 of 40 --

Material flow carrying specific inherent properties, e.g. energy content, elementary composition, shall always be
allocated reflecting the physical flows, irrespective of the allocation chosen for the process.
In the case of combined heat and power production, a distribution based on the best efficiency for the (potential)
separate generation of electricity or heat shall be considered.
Data provided by Adbri for this assessment includes both product (recycled content in mixes) and production site
(energy use) specific data.
The product does not contain one or more substances that are listed in the “Candidate List of Substances of Very
High Concern for authorisation.
All waste generated at Adbri sites is non-hazardous. Washout bay waste is sent for recycling. Waste concrete is
either re-used directly, or recycled, and plant materials are disposal to landfill.
Allocation of recycled content
Adbri’s concrete mixes incorporate varying levels of SCMs, i.e., granulated blast furnace slag and fly ash.
BS EN 16757:2017 specifically lists these materials relevant to the study as co-products. As such, the above
materials are considered as co-products of their production process and the impacts for their production process
are allocated according to PCR 2019:14 Construction Products (co-produced goods, multi-output allocation).
Ground granulated blast furnace slag: The AusLCI process for slag is allocated based on economic value,
as the product has significant economic value at the point of collection.
Fly ash: Fly ash in the modelling process only includes transport impacts. Fly ash has a separate market as a
sustainable construction material, commanding a value independent of coal. Without its use as a supplementary
cementitious material, fly ash would otherwise be landfilled and has no value. Given its relatively low market value
compared to the primary energy product, the environmental impacts of coal combustion allocated via economic
allocation are negligible.
Adbri Concrete EPD 25

-- 25 of 40 --

Adbri quarry data
Adbri produce three main types of aggregate for concrete:
— Coarse aggregate;
— Manufactured sand (a type of fine aggregate); and
— Natural sand (a type of fine aggregate).
Coarse aggregate and manufactured sand are
produced at the same sites in a combined process.
Manufactured sand is produced from a process of
further crushing coarse aggregate until it is sufficiently
sized to be used as a substitute for natural sand.
Natural sand is quarried and processed at specific sites
via a different production process. At all aggregate
sites, the resource use and discharge data (e.g. energy,
water, wastewater, waste and air emissions) describe
inputs and outputs that are shared with other product
systems (i.e. aggregates produced for road base etc.).
Allocation was thus required to determine the site
resource use and discharge amounts that is allocated
to each product.
The allocation was undertaken following the guidelines
in the relevant PCR (2019:14, outlined above).
The inputs and outputs to the various aggregate
manufacturing sites were first identified and collected.
The basis of allocation differed between the inputs and
outputs based on their properties: all inputs and outputs
were partitioned for the sub-systems based on their
underlying physical relationships (i.e. the proportion of
total production at each site, by weight).
Averaging production site data
Adbri produces a range of concrete mixes at each
of their concrete batching plants, with the range
dependent on customer demand. Due to the random
nature of which mixes are produced and the large
number of concrete mixes, allocation was required to
determine the amount of site resource use, discharges
and emissions associated with each mix.
Allocation was simply carried out based on physical
relationships (i.e., production amount, by volume).
It was assumed that all mixes require or result in
an equal amount of site resources, discharges,
and emissions (per m 3 ). Therefore, each site’s total
production volume could be used to perform the
calculation of inputs and outputs per m3 – i.e., physical
allocation.
Adbri’s ready-mixed concrete production operations
span many states. The allocated inputs and outputs
of each site (concrete batching plant) were averaged
to create state average input and output values and
modelled using state-specific electricity processes from
AusLCI. This approach applies only to site resource
data for concrete batching (A3). Product specific data
(e.g., cement, fly ash, slag, aggregates, admixtures etc.)
was treated at the product stage.
Allocation in background data
The allocation approach for the generic databases
utilised in this LCA is also compliant with the PCR. More
specifically, the burden of primary production of materials
is always allocated to the primary user of a material, while
secondary (recycled) materials bear only the impacts of the
recycling processes.
The allocation approach of the AusLCI LCA database was
adopted as a default for secondary data and processes
(e.g., secondary fuel in concrete production). The AusLCI
dataset conforms to EN 15804 when applying allocation
to its various processes and sub-processes.
Adbri Concrete EPD	26

-- 26 of 40 --

Table 7 | Average distance GWP for distribution to construction sites
Approach to product grouping
In South Australia, Adbri produces normal class, lower
carbon and special class concrete mixes that fall within
the scope of the LCA study. As such, mixes were grouped
into discrete groups based on a range of variables that are
highly correlated to their environmental impact and easily
interpreted by customers. The approach to determining
the variables for grouping mixes was iterative and involved
close collaboration with the Adbri South Australia project
team. The variables considered included:
— State: SA
— Strength properties (MPa),
— Blend (referring to the type and number of
SCMs included in the mix design),
The process of grouping the normal-class mixes
involved the following aims and considerations:
— Provide a simple and readable EPD: minimise
the number and complexity of product groups
presented within the EPD to ensure the EPD
is reasonably aggregated and summarised
for practical use by EPD users.
— Offer certainty to EPD users: to provide
reliable figures for Adbri customers and industry
practitioners, with sufficient specificity as to offer
more representative and specific data compared
to current average life cycle assessment data
for concrete.
— Future-proof the EPD: to keep product category
groupings consistent over time.
Compliance with standards
The LCA and EPD have been developed to comply with:
1. BS EN 15804:2012+A2:2019. Sustainability of construction works. Environmental product declarations. Core rules for the
product category of construction products. British Standards Institution, 2019.3
2. BS EN 16757:2017. Sustainability of construction works – Environmental product declarations – Product Category Rules for
concrete and concrete elements. British Standards Institution, 2017.4
3. ISO 14040:2006 and ISO14044:2006+A1:2018 which describe the principles, framework, requirements and provides guidelines
for life cycle assessment (LCA) (ISO, 2006; ISO, 2018).7-8
4. ISO 14025:2006 Environmental labels and declarations – Type III environmental declarations -- Principles and procedures, which
establishes the principles and specifies the procedures for developing Type III environmental declaration programmes and Type III
environmental declarations (ISO, 2006).9
5. General Programme Instructions (GPI) for the International EPD System V3.01 – containing instructions regarding methodology
and the content that must be included in EPDs registered under the International EPD System.10
6. PCR 2019:14 Construction Products (Version 1.3.4), 2021-02-05.11
7. Complementary Product Category Rules (C-PCR) to PCR 2019:14 Concrete and Concrete elements, Version 2019-12-20.
The final variables chosen to group the products are:
— State: SA
— Strength (MPa): 20, 25, 32, 40, 50
— Blend: GP cement or GL cement,
fly ash, slag, ternary
The selected special class concrete mixes included
in the LCA study were grouped using the same
approach as normal class concrete and declared
for specific mix code.
Distribution - A4
Data regarding distribution of concrete ready-mix was
calculated based on annual figures provided by Adbri,
including transport modes and distance. Distances
were calculated using Google Maps (road transport)
and the weighted average transport from each plant
and cement type to consumers was calculated. Tables
below summarise the data provided for weighted average
distance between manufacture site and consumers, and
modelled data for assessment.
Location Mode of
transport Average
Distance (km) 	GWP CO 2 eq
South
Australia Concrete truck 	13 	9.64
Adbri Concrete EPD 27

-- 27 of 40 --

Adbri Concrete EPD	28

-- 28 of 40 --

29	Adbri Concrete EPD
The potential environmental impacts, use of resources and waste categories included in this
EPD were calculated using the SimaPro v9.5 tool and are listed in Table 7. All tables from this
point will contain the abbreviation only. They are aligned to and adopted from EN 15804+A2
version of Environmental Footprint 3.1.
The LCA results are relative expressions and do not predict impacts on category endpoints,
the exceeding of thresholds and safety margins or risks. The impact assessment results are
presented in the next sections.
6	Environmental performance results
Table 7 | Life Cycle Impact, Resource and Waste Assessment Categories, Measurements and Methods
Impact
category Abbreviation 	Measurement unit 	Assessment method
and implementation Disclaimer
POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
Global warming potential
(fossil) GWPF kg CO 2
equivalents
(GWP100)
Baseline model of 100 years of the
IPCC based on IPCC 2021 None
Global warming potential
(biogenic) GWPB kg CO2
equivalents
(GWP100)
Baseline model of 100 years of the
IPCC based on IPCC 2021 None
Global warming
potential (land use/ land
transformation)
GWPL kg CO2
equivalents
(GWP100)
Baseline model of 100 years of the
IPCC based on IPCC 2021 None
Total global warming
potential GWPT kg CO2
equivalents
(GWP100)
Baseline model of 100 years of the
IPCC based on IPCC 2021 None
Acidification potential 	AP 	mol H+ eq. Accumulated Exceedance, Seppälä
et al. 2006, Posch et al., 2008 None
Eutrophication – aquatic
freshwater EP - freshwater 	kg P equivalent
EUTREND model, Struijs et
al., 2009b, as implemented in
ReCiPe[1]
None
Eutrophication – aquatic
marine EP - marine 	kg N equivalent EUTREND model, Struijs et al.,
2009b, as implemented in ReCiPe None
Eutrophication – terrestrial 	EP – terrestrial 	mol N equlivalent Accumulated Exceedance, Seppälä
et al. 2006, Posch et al. None
Photochemical ozone
creation potential POCP 	kg NMVOC equivalents LOTOS-EUROS ,Van Zelm et al.,
2008, as applied in ReCiPe None
Abiotic depletion potential
(elements) ADPE 	kg Sb equivalents 	CML (v4.8) 	2
Abiotic depletion potential
(fossil fuels) ADPF 	MJ net calorific value 	CML (v4.8) 	2
Ozone depletion potential 	ODP 	kg CFC 11 equivalents 	Steady-state ODPs, WMO 2014 	None
Water Depletion Potential 	WDP 	m3 equivalent deprived
Available WAter REmaining
(AWARE) Boulay et al., 2016
(including Australia flows calculated
using 36 Australian catchments)
2

-- 29 of 40 --

Adbri Concrete EPD	30
Impact
category Abbreviation 	Measurement unit 	Assessment method
and implementation Disclaimer
ADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
Global warming potential,
excluding biogenic uptake,
emissions and storage
GWP-GHG kg CO 2 equivalents
(GWP100)
Baseline model of 100 years of the
IPCC based on IPCC 2021[2] None
Particulate matter 	PM 	disease incidence 	SETAC-UNEP, Fantke et al. 2016[3] 	None
Ionising radiation - human
health IRP 	kBq U-235 eq
Human health effect model as
developed by Dreicer et al.[4] 1995
update by Frischknecht et al.,
2000[5]
1 (Refer to the
bottom of the table)
Eco-toxicity (freshwater) 	ETP-fw 	CTUe
Usetox version 2 until the modified
USEtox model is available from
EC-JRC
2 (Refer to the
bottom of the table)
Human toxicity potential -
cancer effects HTP-c 	CTUh
Usetox version 2 until the modified
USEtox model is available from
EC-JRC
2 (Refer to the
bottom of the table)
Human toxicity potential -
non cancer effects HTP-nc 	CTUh
Usetox version 2 until the modified
Usetox model is available from
EC-JRC
2 (Refer to the
bottom of the table)
Soil quality 	SQP 	dimensionless 	Soil quality index based on LANCA 2 (Refer to the
bottom of the table)
RESOURCE USE
Use of renewable primary
energy excluding renewable
primary energy resources
used as raw materials
PERE 	MJ, net calorific value 	Manual for direct inputs[6] 	None
Use of renewable primary
energy resources used as
raw materials
PERM 	MJ, net calorific value 	Manual for direct inputs[7] 	None
Total use of renewable
primary energy resources
(primary energy and
primary energy resources
used as raw materials)
PERT 	MJ, net calorific value ecoinvent version 3.8 and expanded
by PRé Consultants[8] None
Use of non-renewable
primary energy excluding
non-renewable primary
energy resources used as
raw materials
PENRE 	MJ, net calorific value 	Manual for direct inputs[9] 	None
Use of non- renewable
primary energy resources
used as raw materials
PENRM 	MJ, net calorific value 	Manual for direct inputs[10] 	None
Total use of non- renewable
primary energy resources
(primary energy and
primary energy resources
used as raw materials)
PENRT 	MJ, net calorific value ecoinvent version 3.8 and expanded
by PRé Consultants[11] None
Use of secondary material 	SM 	kg 	Manual for direct inputs 	None
Use of renewable
secondary fuels RSF 	MJ, net calorific value 	Manual for direct inputs 	None
Use of non-renewable
secondary fuels NRSF 	MJ, net calorific value 	Manual for direct inputs 	None
Use of net fresh water 	FW 	m 3 	ReCiPe 2016 	None
Table 7 (Cont.) | Life Cycle Impact, Resource and Waste Assessment Categories, Measurements and Methods

-- 30 of 40 --

31	Adbri Concrete EPD
[1] 	EN 15804:2012+A2:2019 specifies that the unit for the indicator for Eutrophication aquatic freshwater shall be kg PO43- eq, although the
reference given (“EUTREND model, Struijs et al., 2009b, as implemented in ReCiPe”) uses the unit kg P eq. This is likely a typographical error in
EN 15804+A2, which is expected to be corrected in a future revision. Until this has been corrected, results for Eutrophication aquatic freshwater
shall be given in both kg PO4 eq and kg P eq. in the EPD.
[2] 	This indicator accounts for all greenhouse gases except biogenic carbon dioxide uptake and emissions and biogenic carbon stored in the
product. As such, the indicator is identical to GWP-total except that the CF for biogenic CO2 is set to zero.
[3] 	Fantke et al., Global Guidance for Life Cycle Impact Assessment Indicators: Volume 1. UNEP/SETAC Life Cycle Initiative, Paris, pp. 76-99
[4] 	Dreicer et al., 1995. ExternE, Externalities of Energy, Vol. 5. Nuclear, Science, Research and Development JOULE, Luxembourg.
[5] 	Frischknecht et al., R., 2000. Environmental impact assessment Review, 20, pp.159-189.
[6] 	PERE = PERT - PERM
[7] 	Calculated based on the lower heating value (LHV) of renewable raw materials. LHV is taken from https://phyllis.nl/, as recommended by SimaPro
in compliance with EN15804+A2: https://support.simapro.com/s/article/How-to-calculate-EN-15804-A2-indicators-in- desktop-SimaPro
[8] 	Calculated as sum of renewable, biomass; renewable, wind, solar and geothermal, and renewable, water.
[9] 	PENRE = PENRT - PENRM
[10] Calculated based on the lower heating value (LHV) of non-renewable raw materials. LHV is taken from https://phyllis.nl/, as recommended by
SimaPro in compliance with EN15804+A2: https://support.simapro.com/s/article/How-to-calculate-EN-15804-A2- indicators-in-desktop-SimaPro
[11] Calculated as sum of non-renewable, fossil and non-renewable, nuclear.
[12] Calculated as sum of Bulk waste and Slags/ash.
[13] Aligned with PCR 2019:14
Disclaimer 1 – his impact category deals mainly with the eventual impact of low dose ionizing radiation on human
health of the nuclear fuel cycle. It does not consider effects due to possible nuclear accidents, occupational
exposure nor due to radioactive waste disposal in underground facilities. Potential ionising radiation from the soil,
from radon and from some construction materials is also not measured by this indicator. [13]
Disclaimer 2 – The results of this environmental impact indicator shall be used with care as the uncertainties on
these results are high or as there is limited experienced with the indicator.
Impact
category Abbreviation 	Measurement unit 	Assessment method
and implementation Disclaimer
WASTE CATEGORIES
Hazardous waste disposed 	HWD 	kg 	EDIP 2003 (v1.05) 	None
Non-hazardous waste
disposed NHWD 	kg 	EDIP 2003 (v1.05)[12] 	None
Radioactive waste
disposed/stored RWD 	kg 	EDIP 2003 (v1.05) 	None
OUTPUT FLOWS
Components for reuse 	CRU 	kg 	Manual for direct inputs 	None
Materials for recycling 	MFR 	kg 	Manual for direct inputs 	None
Materials for energy
recovery MFRE 	kg 	Manual for direct inputs 	None
Exported energy 	EE - e 	MJ per energy carrier 	Manual for direct inputs 	None
Exported energy, thermal 	EE – t 	MJ per energy carrier 	Manual for direct inputs 	None
Table 7 (Cont.) | Life Cycle Impact, Resource and Waste Assessment Categories, Measurements and Methods

-- 31 of 40 --

Environmental performance results	
Product stage (A1-A3) results per m
3 concrete
Table
 8 | Potential environmental impacts of Product stage (A1 – A3)
Table
 9 | Resource use of Product stage (A1 – A3)
32 Adbri Concrete EPD

-- 32 of 40 --

Table 1
0 | Waste and Output low indicators
Table
 11 | Additional Environmental Impact of Product Stage (A1 – A3)
33	Adbri Concrete EPD

-- 33 of 40 --

Table 13 | Potential environmental impacts of Distribution stage (A4)
	Table 14 | Resource use of Distribution stage (A4)	
LCA results for Distribution stage (Module A4)	
POTENTIAL
	ENVIRONMENTAL
	IMPACTS
GWP-
	fossil
GWP-
	biogenic
GWP-
	luluc
GWP-
	total
 
ODP
 
AP
 
EP
freshwater
EP
freshwater
EP-
marine
EP
terrestrial
 
POCP
ADP-
	minerals
	& metals
ADP-
	fossil fuels
 
WDP
Product group
 
kg CO
2 eq.
 
kg CO
2 eq.
 
kg CO
2 eq.
 
kg CO
2 eq.
 
kg CFC 11
	eq.
 
mol H
+ eq.
 
kg PO
 4
	3
- eq. kg P eq.
 
kg N eq.
 
mol N eq.
 
kg NMVOC
	eq.
 
kg Sb eq.
 
MJ
 
m3 deprived
Concrete
	produced at
	South Australia
9.64
 
0.00
 
1.65E-05
 
9.64
 
1.78E-07
 
0.05
 
0.00
 
8.60E-05
 
0.01
 
0.15
 
0.05
 
8.16E-06
 
17.88
 
28.14
Acronyms: GWP-fossil = Global Warming Potential fossil fuels; GWP-biogenic = Global Warming Potential biogenic; GWP-luluc = Global Warming Potential land use and land use change; ODP = Depletion potential of the	
stratospheric ozone layer; AP = Acidification potential, Accumulated Exceedance; EP-freshwater = Eutrophication potential, fraction of nutrients reaching freshwater end compartment; EP-marine = Eutrophication potential,	
fraction of nutrients reaching marine end compartment; EP-terrestrial = Eutrophication potential, Accumulated Exceedance; POCP = Formation potential of tropospheric ozone; ADP-minerals&metals = Abiotic depletion potential
	for non-fossil resources; ADP-fossil = Abiotic depletion for fossil resources potential; WDP = Water (user) deprivation potential, deprivation-weighted water consumption
	Acronyms: PERE = Use of renewable primary energy excluding renewable primary energy resources used as raw materials; PERM = Use of renewable primary energy resources used as raw materials; PERT =
	Total use of renewable primary energy resources; PENRE = Use of non-renewable primary energy excluding non-renewable primary energy resources used as raw materials; PENRM = Use of non-renewable
	primary energy resources used as raw materials; PENRT = Total use of non-renewable primary energy re-sources; SM = Use of secondary material; RSF = Use of renewable secondary fuels; NRSF = Use of non-
	renewable secondary fuels; FW = Use of net fresh water	
RESOURCE USE
 
PERE
 
PERM
 
PERT
 
PENRE
 
PENRM
 
PENT
 
SM
 
RSF
 
NRSF
 
FW
Product Group
 
MJ
 
MJ
 
MJ
 
MJ
 
MJ
 
MJ
 
kg 
MJ
 
MJ
 
m3
Concrete produced
	at South Australia
 
0.36
 
0.00
 
0.36
 
18.64
 
0.00
 
18.64
 
0.00
 
0.00
 
0.00
 
0.01
34 Adbri Concrete EPD

-- 34 of 40 --

WASTE CATEGORIES
	AND OUTPUT FLOWS
Hazardous waste	
disposed
Non-hazardous
	waste disposed
Radioactive waste
	disposed
Components for
	re-use
 
Material for recycling
 
Materials for energy
	recovery
Exported energy,
	electricity
Exported energy,
	thermal
Product Group
 
kg 
kg 
kg 
kg 
kg 
kg 
MJ
 
MJ
Concrete produced
	at South Australia
 
3.73E-05
 
4.90E-01
 
1.96E-07
 
0.00E+00
 
0.00E+00
 
0.00E+00
 
0.00E+00
 
0.00E+00
Table 15 | Waste and output flows of Distribution stage (A4)	
ADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL OUTPUTS
 
GWP-GHG
 
PM
 
IRP
 
ETP - fw
 
HTP - c
 
HTP - nc
 
SQP
Product Group
 
kg CO
 2 eq 
disease incidence
 
kBq U-235 eq
 
CTUe
 
CTUh
 
CTUh
 
Pt
Concrete produced at South Australia
 
9.52E+00
 
7.98E-07
 
1.37E-03
 
2.14E+02
 
2.40E-09
 
1.47E-07
 
7.01E+00
Acronyms: GWP-GHG = Global warming potential, excluding biogenic uptake, emissions and storage; PM = Particulate matter; IRP = Ionising radiation - human health; ETP - fw = Ecotoxicity - freshwater; HTP - c
	= Human toxicity potential - cancer effects; HTP - nc = Human toxicity potential - non cancer effects; SQP = Soil quality.	
Table 16 | Additional Environmental Impact of Product Stage (A4)
35	Adbri Concrete EPD

-- 35 of 40 --

36 Adbri Concrete EPD

-- 36 of 40 --

For Adbri concrete’s environmental GWP, it is typical to identify the product you are seeking for its normal versus
special class, SCM replacement levels which Adbri have branded as Adbri, Futurecrete® and Futurecrete ® Ultra
concrete and use the Cradle to Gate (A1-A3) GWP total number expressed as kgCO2 eq. For additional information
pertaining to the transport to site component, for your convenience, Adbri have calculated the data and therefore
the GWP number for transport A4 should be added to the A1-A3 GWP value.
7 	Interpretation of results
37	Adbri Concrete EPD

-- 37 of 40 --

38 Adbri Concrete EPD

-- 38 of 40 --

39
1. 	Australian Life Cycle Assessment Society (ALCAS). The Australian Life Cycle Inventory
Shadow Database v1.31. (2018)
2. 	Australian Life Cycle Assessment Society (ALCAS). Australian Life Cycle Inventory (AusLCI)
v1.42. (2023)
3. 	British Standards Institution. Sustainability of construction works. Environmental product
declarations. Core rules for the product category of construction products, BS EN
15804:2012+A2:2019. (2019)
4. 	British Standards Institution. Sustainability of construction works – Environmental product
declarations – Product Category Rules for concrete and concrete elements, BS EN
16757:2024. (2024)
5. 	Ecoinvent Centre. Ecoinvent version 3 database. Zurich: ETH, Agroscope, EMPA, EPFL,
PSI. 2023). Retrieved from www.ecoinvent.org.
6. 	Frischknecht, R. The Environmental Relevance of Capital Goods in Life Cycle
Assessments of Products and Services. Int. J LCA. (2007)
7. 	International Organization for Standardization. ISO 14040:2006+A2:2020. Environmental
management – Life cycle assessment – Principles and framework
8. 	International Organization for Standardization. ISO 14044:2006+A2:2020. Environmental
management – Life cycle assessment – Requirements and guidelines
9. 	International Organization for Standardization. ISO 14025:2006 Environmental labels and
declarations — Type III environmental declarations — Principles and procedures
10. 	The International EPD System (2023). General Programme Instructions for The
International EPD System version 4.2. (2019) Retrieved from www.envirodec.com.
11. 	The International EPD System version 5.0 (2024). Retrieved from www.envirodec.com.
12. 	The International EPD System. Complementary Product Category Rules (C-PCR) to PCR
2019:14 v1.3.4 (2024). Retrieved from www.envirodec.com.
13. 	The international EPD System. Complementary Product Category Rules (C-PCR-003)
to PCR 2019:14 Concrete and Concrete Elements (2024).
Retrieved from www.envirodec.com.
References	8
Adbri Concrete EPD

-- 39 of 40 --

Adbri Limited 	ABN 15 007 596 018
Adbri Concrete SA 	ABN 26 007 726 909
Registered Office
Level 4, 151 Pirie Street
Adelaide SA 5000
adbri.com.au
© 2023
The Adbri logo, the Adbri Concrete logo, and Futurecrete ® are Australian registered trade marks of
Adbri Limited or related bodies corporate.
The EPD Australasia Logo is an Australian registered trade mark of IVL Svenska Miljoinstitutet AB
used with permission.

-- 40 of 40 --

